Hi, welcome to session 129.
My name is Richard Williamson and
I'm a Safari Web Kit engineer.
This is advanced Web Kit development.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about how you can use Web Kit,
which is, as you all know,
the technology behind Safari,
and now a lot of other
applications that ship with OS X.
And really what I want
to talk about is Web Kit,
but not just as it's used in browsing.
Web Kit's not just about browsing.
So to set the stage for this,
I'd like to talk about a couple
of examples of browser-hosted
applications and then see how they
compare to desktop applications.
So one common technique used for writing
a browser hosted application is to have
server generated content that changes
via form interaction with web pages.
Pretty primitive,
but a lot of pages actually quite
successful with this technique.
A lot of banking sites, for example,
use this kind of approach.
More recently,
applications have started to put
more interactivity into the client
using JavaScript and XMLHttpRequest,
and really only interacting with the
server for the application logic.
And this is a much better approach to
building browser-hosted applications.
A great example of this
is maps.google.com.
On this site,
you can actually interact with the map
without having to load a new web page.
And the interaction happens
using XMLHttpRequest.
And this is now being called Ajax.
Go figure why it's being called Ajax,
but it is.
So these are two different approaches
that are being used for browser hosted
applications and there's many others.
These are just a couple of examples.
And the point I want to make is that
the same technologies that are used
for browser-hosted applications can
be used in desktop applications.
And let me give you a couple of examples.
So an application can embed Web Kit and
the client code can generate content.
A great example of this is
dictionary.app that ships with OS X.
The content area here is rendered
with Web Kit and the form area
above the content area is Cocoa,
which is the GUI toolkit Cocoa.
And as the user enters data in the form,
the content area updates.
Another example that's analogous to
the browser hosted application is a
user interface that is using Web Kit to
render content using JavaScript to do
dynamic HTML and XML HTTP requests to
interact with server application logic.
A couple of the widgets
that we ship do this.
The stocks widget and the weather widget.
What I'm advocating here is
a new approach to building
your desktop applications.
That approach is to use Web Kit for
the layout of your user interfaces.
Why do this?
Well,
it's easy to iterate on the interface.
It's very easy to
leverage rich media types.
And HTML and modern CSS provide you
with very powerful layout capabilities.
and very importantly,
a lot of designers out there, H.I.
designers, have existing skill sets in
designing HTML and CSS content.
So that can be leveraged now
in your desktop applications.
And lastly,
it's very easy to style the interfaces.
So you might be saying, but why, really?
There's a lot of existing
techniques that I have for
building application interfaces,
lots of GUI toolkits.
Cocoa is great.
Why should I do this?
You might also say,
"InnoHTML really isn't capable enough.
It doesn't have the kind of techniques
that I need to use in my application.
It just doesn't cut it."
I can't access native code.
I really want to access my existing
code base that has my application logic.
If I really do want to extend HTML,
writing a plug-in is really difficult.
The API is just too hard to access.
and JavaScript.
JavaScript isn't like C or Objective C.
It's too slow.
It doesn't cut it.
That's not true.
And I'm going to show
you why it's not true.
How do you do this?
You use Web Kit.
In those areas where Web Kit isn't
appropriate or isn't capable out of
the box for fulfilling your needs,
you can extend and enhance it
by writing custom plug-ins,
by using the powerful DOM API,
by extending JavaScript,
and by accessing native
code if necessary.
So what I'm going to talk about
specifically in this session is
three technologies in Web Kit.
The Web Kit plugin API, scripting using
Objective-C and JavaScript,
and the Objective-C DOM bindings
to the actual DOM document model.
And because this is an advanced session,
I'm not going to spend a lot of
time showing you code on slides.
We're actually going to go
through an example of building
an application from scratch.
And I'll touch on each of
these areas in that example.
Before we actually get to coding,
I'm going to show you just a few
slides to give you an overview of
the technologies that we're going to
use and the APIs we're going to use.
First, Web Kit plugins.
You may have already heard about
Web Kit plugins in other sessions,
both this year and last year.
They're very easy to implement.
They're a standard Cocoa bundle.
And the key object in a
Web Kit plugin is an NSView.
It's just like any other NSView.
And it's very easy to
script these plugins.
The API really couldn't be more simple.
To implement a plugin,
it's really one method on the
principal class of your plugin.
And that's plugin view with arguments.
And the arguments that are passed to
this method are the attributes that
are specified on the embed tag that
specifies the plugin on your web page.
Here's an example of some
of the attributes that are
passed or could be passed.
In addition to that one method
which you have to implement,
there are some additional methods
that you can optionally implement.
There are lifecycle methods.
Plugin initialize, start, stop,
and destroy.
And initialize is called when
the plugin is first created.
Start and stop may be called
multiple times as the plugin
is suspended or resumed.
And destroy is called when the
plugin is actually destroyed,
when the page goes away.
So in addition to those
lifecycle methods,
there's one additional
method here for scripting,
object for web script.
And that one little innocuous
method is actually really powerful.
And I'll go into some depth about how we
can use that method to script a plug-in.
And then finally,
there's a method that will let
you alter the appearance of your
plugin content based upon whether
or not the plugin is selected.
And also in this upcoming demo,
we're going to touch on this area.
And I assume you all
know how to use Xcode.
So I'm not actually going to
show you the entire interface
for these two different areas.
You can look it up in
the Xcode documentation.
It's quite comprehensive.
There's really two areas.
There's accessing
JavaScript objects from Objective C.
And JavaScript objects in Objective
C are represented by what's
called a Web Script object.
And this is really a proxy
for the JavaScript object,
but as it exists in Objective C.
And then the other side of this is if
you have an existing Objective C object
and you want to expose it to JavaScript,
and to do that, all you have to do is
implement an informal protocol.
And then you have the
Web Scripting protocol on your
existing Objective C class.
And this can be any Objective C class.
So again, the complete documentation for
this is in Web Script object.h.
Okay.
So let's move to some code.
So what I'd like to do is write
a little application that is
a picture frame application.
And I'd like to show several
images in a picture frame.
I'm just going to use
these nine pictures here.
And
What I'd like to do is
inside the Web content,
use Core Image to make
transitions between these images.
So this will be completely
inside the Web page,
leveraging Core Image.
So the first thing I need to do is create
the HTML that's going to represent the
user interface for this application.
So what I have here is a little
template that's relatively simple,
and all it's doing right now
is loading one of those images.
Pretty straightforward.
The first thing I'd like to do
is use CSS to style this page.
So let's add a little bit of CSS.
And I have two external style
sheets that I'm going to use.
Let me just show you those style sheets.
All this style sheet is doing is --
specifying a gray background color for
the border cells that surround the image.
Let's go ahead and load that in
Safari again and see what it looks like.
A little bit more interesting,
but still not that exciting.
So what I'd really like to do is use a
series of images to create something that
looks more like a real picture frame.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And to do that,
all I have to do is change the style.
And what I have here is a
series of images that represent
[Transcript missing]
is going to show you the image
that we actually want to show.
So to make that change,
all I'm going to do is point
to a different style sheet.
will save that.
And that style sheet looks pretty much
identical to the previous style sheet,
except instead of using
a background color,
we're now using a background image.
Let's go ahead and load that.
Now we have something that
looks a little better.
It looks like a real picture frame.
Okay.
So now what I'd like to do, though,
is provide a control that will let
me transition between the different
images that I'd like to show.
So let's do that with
a bit more JavaScript.
In fact, I'm going to show you
a little bit more of
What we're going to do is just
add a reference to an existing
piece of JavaScript that will
is going to show you how to use
a div effectively as a button.
Let's go ahead and do that
and see what it looks like.
What I've done here is add a
div with a mouse down handler,
and that mouse down handler
is just going to change the
source of the image element.
Up to now,
this is all just basic HTML stuff.
We haven't really accessed
the power of Web Kit,
but that's coming up.
So the other thing I wanted to
do is I only want this control to
show up as I move over the page.
So this is done using mouse
over and mouse out handlers.
And now as I click,
it's going to -- on a timer,
it's going to update the images.
So standard HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
I haven't done anything
special with Web Kit.
So in looking at Core Image,
what I wanted to do is try and
leverage some of these sophisticated
transitions that are available.
And I actually just went out and
looked at some of the sample code
that is available for Core Image,
and I've leveraged that in this demo.
So the first thing we need to do
is because I know HTML doesn't
support this directly,
I'm going to use a plug-in.
And where we now specify
an image element,
that's going to change to be--
[Transcript missing]
One interesting thing here is the
type attribute which specifies the
MIME type for my custom plug-in.
So if we try and load this right now,
it's not going to work.
Let's go ahead and try and load it.
Actually, let me make sure I didn't
install the plug-in.
Actually, okay.
I didn't paste it into the file.
said it can't find the plugin.
Let's go ahead and write the plugin.
This is Xcode 2.1, so I have to upgrade.
Okay.
So what I've done,
let me just first of all
talk about the view class.
This is a standard Cocoa view class.
[Transcript missing]
is the heart of the custom code.
This is no different than any other NSVU.
In fact, I pretty much took this verbatim
from the Core Image demo that
does a similar kind of thing.
And there were a few additional
methods on the view to
start and stop a transition.
But the plug-in code is the
interesting code that we care
about for this particular demo.
And you'll see here,
plug-in view with arguments is the method
that I have to implement on my plug-in.
And all it does is create
a transition image view.
That's the class that is going to do
the transition between the images.
It does a couple of additional things.
It gets the width and the
height of the plug-in.
and it gets the source attribute,
which lets you specify an initial
image to show in the plugin.
And then it does a little bit of
logic to deal with relative URLs.
and then there's a couple of the
lifecycle methods that we've implemented,
plugin start and plugin stop.
[Transcript missing]
And there's a pause and resume method
which just call Web Plugin Stop and Stop,
just a nicer name for those same methods.
Okay.
So that's the core of the plug-in.
We've implemented the
API that we have to implement.
But now what I'd like to
do is from JavaScript,
I'd like to control the actions
of the plug-in via script code.
So to do that, I have to export methods.
And by default, the object that you
export from the plug-in,
which we do -- I'm sorry,
: This little innocuous method
that I mentioned earlier,
object for WebScript,
you're just going to export self.
And by default,
none of the methods or properties
of your object are exported.
This is because methods like Dialog
don't make a lot of sense to export,
and it also could be a potential
security risk to export methods which
[Transcript missing]
A method to set the source image,
that's the beginning
image for the transition.
A method to set the target
A method to set the
particular transition number.
And a method to perform the transition.
And then two other methods to
stop and start the transition.
Additionally,
we'd like the names of these methods
in JavaScript to be reasonable.
We want the API to look good.
And in Objective C,
we have these funny colons
that are used in names,
and those don't make a lot
of sense in JavaScript.
So what this method does is replace
those Objective C names with names
which are more palatable for JavaScript.
And in particular,
you can see things like set
transition has a colon in Objective C.
In JavaScript, it's just going to be
called set transition.
And we have no properties
that we're going to export.
So we're going to exclude all of
the properties from this object
from visibility in Objective C.
[Transcript missing]
is the developer of the core
image functionality to set up the
transitions and actually generate an
image for a particular transition.
Like I said,
this is pretty much verbatim from the
developer examples for core image.
So that's pretty much it.
We've implemented
We've implemented the essential
plug-in functionality,
and we've implemented the
scripting functionality.
Let's go ahead and build this.
and install it.
Now, to install a plugin,
they just go in any of the
internet plugins directories and
slash library internet plugins or
tilde library internet plugins.
And it built successfully.
I'm going to copy this from
my build directory into Tilda
Library Internet Plugins.
And now if I reload this page,
I have to actually restart Safari.
Let's go to the history
item to bring up that page.
Now instead of the missing plug-in icon,
we actually have the first image.
And now when I start the transitions,
I can
Oh, actually, nothing happened.
Why did nothing happen?
Well,
I haven't actually changed
the JavaScript to perform the
transition and to set the current
transition that we want to use.
Let's go ahead and go back to
our HTML and take a look at
what we'll need to do that.
So I have a different JavaScript file
that I'm going to be using here that's
going to be imported into the HTML file,
frame transition.JavaScript.
Let's take a look at what that does.
So on my button mouse down handler,
remember, this is the mouse down handler
of the div from our Web page.
Let's take a look back at that.
is the unmoused . This is the piece
of JavaScript that will be called
when we select that play button.
is doing is standard JavaScript stuff
to get the button image.
[Transcript missing]
And here we have some code
that's going to leverage our
custom scripting on the plugin.
It's going to find the plugin element.
And then it's going to do some
manipulations to change the current
image that's being displayed.
We're just going to implement
a counter into an OA.
And then it's going to do some
manipulations to change the current
image that's being displayed.
We're just going to implement
a counter into an OA.
will show you how to
use the new DOM binding.
And then we're going to
set a transition number.
And we're just going to increment
that transition number so that
each time we display a new image,
we'll use a different transition.
And then we'll perform the transition.
is going to show you how
to use the DOM binding.
That's pretty much all there is to it.
And then we'll repeat this
on a three-second timer.
So every three seconds,
we're going to update the image.
Now let's take a look
at what that looks like.
Oops.
Let me leave that running.
So actually, this is great,
but it's still inside a browser.
I talked about using custom
applications and not using the
browser to host my application.
So what will it take to transform
this into an application?
Let's do that next.
Because one of the things I'd like
to do is use the Open Panel to
select a set of images that are
shown in that picture frame.
So these are the six lines of
code it takes to transform that
web page into an application.
That's it.
What we're doing is
getting the HTML document,
getting the web frame,
which I'll show you in a minute,
in the nib file,
and loading the request into the web
frame to load the particular HTML page.
This nib file really
couldn't be more simple.
at Gatekeeper asking me if
I want to open Interface Builder.
Yes, I do.
So this is just a simple window
with a single web view in it.
Let's go ahead and build and run this.
Now we have the same web
page in an application.
And you'll notice the same
kinds of effects that we
expect to work still work.
So when I mouse over and mouse out,
the control appears and disappears.
Now we have the same web
page in an application.
And you'll notice the same
kinds of effects that we
expect to work still work.
What I'd like to do next is leverage
some of the capabilities of Cocoa,
like the Open Panel,
something very straightforward.
So how do we do that?
Well,
Back in Interface Builder,
I'm simply-- I think if you were to
do an application more completely,
you'd want to use the
NS Document architecture.
But for now,
I'm just going to have a single window.
And I'm going to connect the
File Open menu item to my app controller.
[Transcript missing]
You can see that there is an
existing connection between the open
menu item and the app controller,
and it's just going to send
open to the app controller.
For some reason, Interface Builder isn't
letting me draw this line.
That looks like a bug.
So anyway,
there's another source code file
for the app controller here that
actually implements the open method.
And this is the method that
will be sent from that open
menu item to my app controller.
And this is standard Cocoa code.
It's going to open up an open panel.
It's going to run it,
and then it's going to pull out a set
of URLs that represent my selection.
So that's all pretty standard except
for this line of code down here.
JS window call web script method,
set images with arguments and
an array of strings that we've
received from the open panel.
And what this is doing is actually
sending a JavaScript method,
set images to the window object.
And we stored that window object
using this delegate method,
window script object available.
And this is one of the frame load
delegate methods that you can implement
on your frame load delegate object,
which is in this case the app controller.
So let's go ahead and take a
look at the HTML now and the
corresponding set images method.
is going to show you how
to use the DOM binding.
This is an object that we created
in Objective-C and we're passing
to JavaScript and it's going to
represent the array of URL strings
that were selected in the open panel.
And all we do is we update the
this hard coded list of images.
Pretty straightforward.
Let's go ahead and run this
again and see how this works.
I'm going to bring up the open panel.
I happen to have a set of
images here from my daughter's
recent second birthday.
Let's take a look at those.
So what we've seen is how to create
a user interface using Safari really
as a development tool to iterate
on the design of my user interface,
how to turn that into an application,
and then how to leverage
Cocoa functionality.
And how it really is possible to
use Objective-C and JavaScript in
very interactive ways.
You can really leverage the
capabilities of Objective-C,
but still have the
flexibility of JavaScript.
There's one additional
thing I want to show you,
which is an alternate
deployment option you now have.
You've got a piece of code and some
HTML that can be deployed as a widget.
So what does it take to
turn this into a widget?
Well, pretty much nothing.
Let's go ahead and look at
the widget version of this.
is going to show you how
to use the DOM binding.
This is pretty much exactly
the same HTML code in
JavaScript as the application,
except I shrank it a little bit
just to be more like a widget,
not take up so much screen real estate.
I'm actually going to
move this onto my desktop.
and you guys know about
that special hack?
Yeah, it's pretty great.
Okay.
There's a default you can write
called com.apple.dashboard.devmode.
And it allows you -- you set that to yes,
and it allows you to run
your widgets on the desktop
outside of the dashboard layer.
So that's great,
but one of the things I'd like to do
in this widget is change the images,
and there's no open dialogue that's
accessible to me from the widget.
: So how can I do that?
Well, I'm not going to show you a lot of
detail because the session following
this is actually going to use the same
widget and talk about how you can use
some of the dashboard capabilities to
implement what I'm going to show you.
But let's just pull up
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
Back to slides.
So what we've seen is really how
it is possible to leverage these
technologies in ways that use the
Web Kit for your presentation,
but still access native
code and the power of Cocoa.
Okay.
Back to slides.
So what we've seen is really how
it is possible to leverage these
technologies in ways that use the
Web Kit for your presentation,
but still access native
code and the power of Cocoa.
This is an advanced session,
so I'm sure you all know
about the JavaScript DOM API.
This is the same API,
but available to you from Objective-C.
The API is a W3 standard.
You can go to the W3
site and look at the API.
And I've given you an example here of the
IDL definition of one of the W3C methods.
And it's binding to C and
it's binding to Objective C.
And there's one thing I want to note,
and that is Objective
C has a funny syntax,
as we all know.
It's got the colons.
And just as we had an issue mapping
Objective C names to JavaScript,
there's an issue mapping
IDL names to Objective C.
So what we chose to do is use the base
name of the IDL method as the first
component of the Objective C name.
So in this case, get named item NS,
which stands for namespace,
is the IDL definition.
And the Objective C method
for this is get named item NS.
And then for each of the parameters that
are associated with the IDL definition,
we have a colon.
So in this case, there are...
[Transcript missing]
So why would you use this
API versus the JavaScript DOM API?
Well, excuse me,
it's really a matter of convenience.
And another possible
reason is performance.
JavaScript is plenty
fast for doing DHTML,
but if you want to do something
like iterate over every
node in a complex document,
it might be more appropriate
to use Objective C.
In fact,
what I'm going to do now is show you
a demo of doing exactly the same thing
in JavaScript versus Objective-C,
and we'll time it and see
what the difference is.
So what I decided to do is go out on
the web and look for a large document.
In fact, I decided to go and
find a Shakespeare play.
In this case,
I'm going to use the Comedy of Errors.
And this page is the entire
play in one large HTML file.
So far, it's pretty zippy loading it.
It's a huge file.
: This is somewhat of
a contrived example,
but what I like to do in JavaScript is
iterate over every node in the DOM,
a computer hash of the
text nodes in the document.
And do it from JavaScript.
and the hash is really stupid.
It's just going to add up the value
of each of the character codes.
Not a very good hash,
but it illustrates the point.
Let me pull up what it is.
I saved that HTML file and I added
a little bit of JavaScript to it.
So let me pull that up.
So you can see what I did is
I added a reference to hash text.js
to the top of the HTML file.
Let's take a look at what that does.
So there's an unload
handler that gets called.
And that unload handler
iterates or traverses over all
of the nodes in the document.
And it calls this hash function,
which I implemented in
JavaScript to very simply,
as I said, just
add up all of the character
codes in the document.
And there are other ways you
could possibly implement this
using the Tree Walker or the
Node Iterator JavaScript objects.
This is just one example of how
you can iterate over a document.
And the other thing I've done
is I've recorded the start
and end times to compute the
total time it takes to do this.
And I've added up the number
of text nodes that we add,
and I'm going to report the
cumulative hash value in an alert.
Let's load this in JavaScript -- I mean,
in Safari and see --
[Transcript missing]
: So that took two seconds to
iterate over the entire document
and compute a cumulative hash.
Not bad.
There were almost 6,000
nodes in the document.
But we can probably do better if
we use native code to do that.
In fact, we can do better.
Let's take a look now at
is going to load that page.
And this is very familiar to you
now from the previous example.
: We have a single WebView and we're
just going to load that Comedy of
Errors HTML page into our application.
And now
In our didFinishLoad method,
we have essentially exactly the same
algorithm that we had in JavaScript.
But instead of being
implemented in JavaScript,
it's implemented in Objective-C.
Let's take a look at the
Traverse Next Node method.
And let's compare that
to the JavaScript method.
There might not be enough
screen real estate to do this.
You can see side by side,
the code is almost identical.
The only thing that's
different is the syntax.
And similarly, the hash function is
essentially identical,
except for the syntax differences.
Okay, so now what I want to do is report
the results from this application
using a Cocoa Alert panel.
And do you think there will be
a difference in performance?
Let's see.
2 seconds to .04 seconds.
The same number of text nodes
in the same cumulative hash.
So if there are any concerns about
JavaScript speed being not sufficient,
and you shouldn't really have concerns,
because for the most part,
it's more than capable and more
than fast enough to do most of
the kinds of things you want to
do for an interactive interface.
But if you choose to implement
computationally intensive algorithms
like this in JavaScript and are too slow,
you now have an alternative.
You can do the same thing in Objective
C and bind that into JavaScript.
So in fact, what I wanted to do is -- I'm
will show you how you can take
this same Objective-C code
and reference it from your
JavaScript code by exporting the
Objective-C functionality in much the
same way that we exported functionality
from the plug-in to JavaScript.
We're now just going to export a piece
of Objective-C code to JavaScript.
So the way we do this is, again,
to leverage a delegate method,
Windows Script object available,
And this will let us
set additional -- well,
let us access the window object
from JavaScript from Objective C.
And in this case,
all we're doing is we're adding self
as a new property of the window object,
and we're going to call it hash.
So now this object will appear in
JavaScript under the name hash,
and it's going to implement
is going to show you how
to use the new DOM binding.
We're going to export in exactly
the same way that we exported
methods from the plug-in.
Now from this class,
you can see we're exporting the
selector hash and we're going
to rename it for visibility in
JavaScript as hash without the colon.
And then let's go ahead
and take a look at the
I'm going to show you the
HTML now that we're going to use,
because what I need to do
is report from JavaScript
is going to show you how
to use the hash value.
We actually want to have JavaScript to
generate this hash and report it.
So let's take a look at that code.
is going to do is instead of
all of that other code that we
had previously in JavaScript,
it's just going to call hash.
is a developer at Microsoft who
has been working on a new
This is what we would do by default.
Hash.hash.
Because we're exporting a hash object,
and that hash object has a hash method.
So it's a little bit awkward,
but let's just live with that
for one second and run this
and see what the value is.
: One other thing I want to
mention before we run it,
though, is this is calling alert
to report the results.
And in Safari,
the Web UI delegate by default will put
is going to show you how to
implement the UI delegate.
I haven't implemented the UI delegate,
so the message isn't going
to get shown anywhere.
We're going to implement one
is the UI delegate method.
Run JavaScript alert panel with message.
We're going to log it to the console.
This means when I run
the application in Xcode,
which we'll do now, the console
will report the results.
So the results showed up in this alert
because that was the alert that we
generated from the Objective-C code.
But you'll also see in the console
is reporting the same numbers.
So this is JavaScript code calling
into Objective C to compute the
hash and then reporting via the
Web UI delegate the results.
So let's just do one final thing here,
and that is clean up this messy API.
I really don't want to have
to call hash.hash to compute
the hash of a particular node.
I just want to call hash.
So how do we do that?
We do that by implementing one
of the web scripting methods
that I mentioned earlier.
These are documented
in web script object.h.
And that's invoke default
method with arguments.
So if you export an Objective-C object
to JavaScript and you try and
operate on it as a function,
which is what you're essentially doing.
: So, in this JavaScript code,
we consider that to be a default method,
and this method will be
called in JavaScript.
So what we're doing here in the
default method is the same thing
that we do in the hash method,
which is to call hash.
So let's go ahead and run that,
and you'll see exactly the same
results that we saw before.
[Transcript missing]
So what you've learned today is
how to write a Web Kit plugin to
leverage really powerful capabilities.
Core image really gives you a lot
of powerful rendering capabilities,
and it is as easy as what I've
shown you to leverage that.
You've seen scripting between
Objective-C and JavaScript and
how it really is easy to mix and
match code between JavaScript and
Objective-C as necessary.
And you've seen the powerful
capabilities that we've exposed
via the DOM Objective-C bindings.
So that's pretty much all
I have to show you today.
For more information,
You can go to the WWDC site.
You're familiar with that.
There's a couple of sessions I want
to mention that are of interest.
The upcoming Safari for Web designer
session will talk more about the
HTML and JavaScript that you can
leverage inside of Safari that
will let you create great websites.
And then there's another really
good session for a lot of folks,
and that's the hands-on
advanced dashboard widgets.
So if you're interested in how we
made this application into a widget
and some of the details of that,
I would recommend going to that session.
And if you have any particular
questions after the conference,
you can contact Mark Malone.